Algorithms Course project


Go is an adversarial game with the objective of having surrounded a larger total area of the board with one's stones
than the opponent. As the game progresses, the players place stones which map out formations and potential territories.
Areas are contested in battles between opposing stones, which are often complex and may result in the expansion,
reduction, or wholesale capture and loss of the contested area.


The four liberties (adjacent empty points) of a single black stone (A), as White reduces those liberties by
one (B, C, and D). When Black has only one liberty left (D), that stone is "in atari".[13] White may capture
that stone (remove from board) with a play on its last liberty (at D-1).
A basic principle of Go is that stones must have at least one "liberty" (Chinese: 氣) to remain on the board.
A "liberty" is an open "point" (intersection) next to a stone. An enclosed liberty (or liberties) is called
an "eye" (眼), and a group of stones with at least two separate eyes is said to be unconditionally "alive".
Such groups cannot be captured, even if surrounded.[15] "Dead" stones are stones that are surrounded and in
groups with poor shape (one or no eyes), and thus cannot resist eventual capture.

The general strategy of Go is to expand one's territory where possible, attack the opponent's weak
groups (groups that can possibly be killed), and always stay mindful of the "life status" of one's own
groups.[17][18] The liberties of groups are countable. Situations where two opposing groups must capture
the other to live are called capturing races (semeai 攻め合い in Japanese).[19] In a capturing race, the group
 with more liberties (and/or better "shape") will ultimately be able to capture the opponent's stones.[19][20]
 Capturing races and questions of life and death are examples of what makes Go challenging.

The game ends when both players pass, and players pass when there are no more profitable moves to be made.
The game is then scored: The player with the greater number of controlled (surrounded) points, factoring in the
number of captured stones and komi, wins the game.[22] Games may also be won by resignation, for example if
a player has lost a large group of stones.